ARROW-9335: [Website] Update website for 1.0 (#63)
apache/arrow-site: faq.md

# Frequently Asked Questions

## General

### What *is* Arrow?

Arrow is an open standard for how to represent columnar data in memory, along
with libraries in many languages that implement that standard.  The Arrow format
allows different programs and runtimes, perhaps written in different languages,
to share data efficiently using a set of rich data types (included nested
and user-defined data types).  The Arrow libraries make it easy to write such
programs, by sparing the programmer from implementing low-level details of the
Arrow format.

Arrow additionally defines a streaming format and a file format for
inter-process communication (IPC), based on the in-memory format.  It also
defines a generic client-server RPC mechanism (Arrow Flight), based on the

> IPC format, and implemented on top of the gRPC framework.  <!-- TODO links -->

Reviewer: perhaps merge this with some of the thoughts above

### Why create a new standard?

> <!-- Fill this in -->

Reviewer: Traditionally, data processing engine developers have created custom data structures to represent datasets in-memory while they are being processed. Given the "custom" nature of these data structures, they must also develop serialization interfaces to convert between these data structures and different file formats, network wire protocols, database clients, and other data transport interface. The net result of this is an incredible amount of waste both in developer time and in CPU cycles spend serializing data from one format to another.

Therefore, the rationale for Arrow's in-memory columnar data format is to provide an out-of-the-box solution to several interrelated problems:

* A general purpose tabular data representation that is highly efficient to process on modern hardware while also being suitable for a wide spectrum of use cases. We believe that fewer and fewer systems will create their own data structures and simply use Arrow.
* Supports both random access and streaming / scan-based workloads.
* A standardized memory format facilitates reuse of libraries of algorithms. When custom in-memory data formats are used, common algorithms must often be rewritten to target those custom data formats.
* Systems that both use or support Arrow can transfer data between them at little-to-no cost. This results in a radical reduction in the amount of serialization overhead in analytical workloads that can often represent 80-90% of computing costs. 
* The language-agnostic design of the Arrow format enables systems written in different programming languages (even running on the JVM) to communicate datasets without serialization overhead. For example, a Java application can call a C or C++ algorithm on data that originated in the JVM.  

... probably some other stuff can be added here

large chunks.

Conversely, Arrow is an in-memory format meant for direct and efficient use
for computational purposes.  Arrow data is not compressed (or only lightly so,
when using dictionary encoding) but laid out in natural format for the CPU,
so that data can be accessed at arbitrary places at full speed.

Therefore, Arrow and Parquet are not competitors: they complement each other
and are commonly used together in applications.  Storing your data on disk
using Parquet, and reading it into memory in the Arrow format, will allow
you to make the most of your computing hardware.

### What about "Arrow files" then?

Apache Arrow defines an inter-process communication (IPC) mechanism to
transfer a collection of Arrow columnar arrays (called a "record batch").
It can be used synchronously between processes using the Arrow "stream format",
or asynchronously by first persisting data on storage using the Arrow "file format".

The Arrow IPC mechanism is based on the Arrow in-memory format, such that
there is no translation necessary between the on-disk representation and
the in-memory representation.  Therefore, performing analytics on an Arrow

> IPC file can use memory-mapping and pay effectively zero cost.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
IPC file can use memory-mapping avoiding any deserialization cost and extra copies.
```

You still need to copy from disk to memory.

Reviewer 3: Agreed. This is a common misconception we sometimes seem to be vulnerable to.

Reviewer 3: Should add a comma before "avoiding", IMHO. Also, I don't think deserialization costs bear any relationship with memory-mapping.

Some things to keep in mind when comparing the Arrow IPC file format and the
Parquet format:

* Parquet is safe for long-term storage and archival purposes, meaning if
  you write a file today, you can expect that any system that says they can
  "read Parquet" will be able to read the file in 5 years or 10 years.
  We are not yet making this assertion about long-term stability of the Arrow

>   format.

Author: Why not?

>   format.

Reviewer: Projects that have "long-term archival storage" as a goal prioritize different things, like data integrity issues that occur when hard drives decay, or trying to reduce the on-disk footprint of data, and so forth. Maybe instead of "not intended" it's rather "does not prioritize the requirements of long-term archival storage."

* Reading Parquet files generally requires expensive decoding, while reading
  Arrow IPC files is just a matter of transferring raw bytes from the storage

>   hardware.

Author: ... except when the columns are compressed?

>   hardware.

Reviewer: Right.

* Parquet files are often much smaller than Arrow IPC files because of the
  elaborate encoding schemes that Parquet uses. If your disk storage or network
  is slow, Parquet may be a better choice even for short-term storage or caching.

### What about the "Feather" file format?

The Feather v1 format started as a separate specification, but the Feather v2
format is just another, easier to remember name for the Arrow IPC file format.

### How does Arrow relate to Flatbuffers?

Flatbuffers is a low-level building block for binary data serialization.
It is not adapted to the representation of large, structured, homogenous
data, and does not sit at the right abstraction layer for data analysis tasks.

Arrow is a data layer aimed directly at the needs of data analysis, providing
elaborate data types (including extensible logical types), built-in support
for "null" values (representing missing data), and an expanding toolbox of I/O
and computing facilities.

The Arrow file format does use Flatbuffers under the hood to facilitate low-level

> metadata serialization, but the Arrow data format uses its own representation

Reviewer: maybe "to serialize schemas and other metadata needed to implement the Arrow binary IPC protocol"

with libraries in many languages that implement that standard.  The Arrow format
allows different programs and runtimes, perhaps written in different languages,
to share data efficiently using a set of rich data types (included nested
and user-defined data types).  The Arrow libraries make it easy to write such
programs, by sparing the programmer from implementing low-level details of the
Arrow format.

Arrow additionally defines a streaming format and a file format for
inter-process communication (IPC), based on the in-memory format.  It also
defines a generic client-server RPC mechanism (Flight RPC), based on the
IPC format, and implemented on top of the gRPC framework.  <!-- TODO links -->

### Why create a new standard?

<!-- Fill this in -->

## Project status

### How stable is the Arrow format? Is it safe to use in my application?
<!-- Revise this -->

The Arrow *in-memory format* is considered stable, and we intend to make only
backwards-compatible changes, such as additional data types.  It is used by
many applications already, and you can trust that compatibility will not be
broken.

The Arrow *file format* (based on the Arrow IPC mechanism) is not recommended

> for long-term disk persistence of data; that said, it is perfectly acceptable

Author: Why not?

Reviewer 3: I'm just rephrasing the original contents, which were written by @wesm AFAIR.

to write Arrow memory to disk for purposes of memory mapping and caching.

We encourage people to start building Arrow-based in-memory computing
applications now, and choose a suitable file format for disk storage
if necessary. The Arrow libraries include adapters for several file formats,
including Parquet, ORC, CSV, and JSON.

### How stable are the Arrow libraries?

Some implementations of Arrow are more complete and more stable than others.

> We refer you to the [implementation matrix](https://github.com/apache/arrow/blob/master/docs/source/status.rst).

Author: This should probably link to the published docs page (which, of course, doesn't exist today but will when this goes live).

Reviewer 3: Ah... annoying.

Author: I've done this.

it done is to pitch in yourself. We're more than willing to help you contribute
successfully to the project.

### How can I report a security vulnerability?

Please send an email to [private@arrow.apache.org](mailto:private@arrow.apache.org).
See the [security]({{ site.baseurl }}/security/) page for more.

## Relation to other projects

### What is the difference between Apache Arrow and Apache Parquet?
<!-- Revise this -->

Parquet files are designed for disk storage, while Arrow is designed for in-memory use,
though you can put it on disk and then memory-map later. Arrow and Parquet are
intended to be compatible with each other and used together in applications.

Parquet is a storage format designed for maximum space efficiency, using
advanced compression and encoding techniques.  It is ideal when wanting to
minimize disk usage while storing gigabytes of data, or perhaps more.
This efficiency comes at the cost of relatively expensive reading into memory,
as Parquet data cannot be directly operated on, and it must be decoded in
large chunks.

Conversely, Arrow is an in-memory format meant for direct and efficient use

> for computational purposes.  Arrow data is not compressed (or only lightly so,

Author: IPC files do support lz4/zstd compression, at least in the C++ implementation

Reviewer 3: This paragraph is about the in-memory format, though.
